README.md, before:

# electrum-compiler

[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/electrum-compiler.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/electrum-compiler)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/epsitec-sa/electrum-compiler.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/epsitec-sa/electrum-compiler)
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/olcw73cohae726aw?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/epsitec/electrum-compiler)

This is a run-time compiler for [Electrum](https://github.com/epsitec-sa/electrum)-enabled
React components, based on **Babel**.
It is relying on [babel-standalone](https://github.com/Daniel15/babel-standalone)
for the real work and provides additional logic to build live React components
directly from source code.

# The Compiler class

## Transform JavaScript to ES5

To transform JavaScript to ES5, use:

* `transform(input)` &rarr; produces ES5 output based on the JavaScript `source`.

```javascript
let input = 'const greet = x => `Hello ${x}.`;';
let compiler = new Compiler ();
let source = compiler.transform (input);
// ES5 compatible source
```

## Build Electrum-enabled React component

To build an Electrum-enabled React component, use:

* `build(name, input)` &rarr; produces a component description; the name of the
  compoment will be `name` and its source code defined by `input`, which must
  be a source containing a class definition.
* `build(name, input, locals)` &rarr; same as above, but inject the key/value
  pairs found in `locals` into the compilation context.


```javascript
let input = 'class extends React.Component { render() { return <div>Hi.</div>; } }';
let compiler = new Compiler ();
let output = compiler.build ('Foo', input);
// Component in output.component
```

If the source code needs to reference external symbols (for instance other
components), they must be registered before calling `build()`:

```javascript
let input = `
class extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <Button>{text}</Button>;
  }
}`;

let compiler = new Compiler ();

compiler.register (Button);
compiler.register ('text', 'Hello')

let output = compiler.build ('Foo', input);
// Component in output.component
```

The output of `build()` is an object with following properties:

* `name` &rarr; name of the component.
* `code` &rarr; source code used to produce the component.
* `component` &rarr; the component.
* `error` &rarr; the error (if there was an error).

Properties `code` and `component` are only present if the call to `build()`
was successful. Otherwise, the error message is stored in `error`.

Note that the position in the error message will be offset by one line, as
`build()` prepends some code to the given input source.

## Accessing the catalog

Items registered on the compiler with `register()` are stored in a _catalog_.
The catalog can be retrieved through the `catalog` getter:

```javascript
let compiler = new Compiler ();

compiler.register ('x', {a: 1});
compiler.register ('y', {b: 2});

expect (compiler.catalog.x).to.have.property ('a', 1);
expect (compiler.catalog.y).to.have.property ('b', 2);
```

## Evaluating an expression

The compiler also includes an ES6/JSX compatible version of `eval()` which
can be used to evaluate expressions:

```javascript
let compiler = new Compiler ();

expect (compiler.eval ('2 + 3')).to.equal (5);
expect (compiler.eval ('<div></div>')).to.equalJSX (<div />);
```

Commit message:

Extend compiler.build() with 'more' argument.

README.md, after:

# electrum-compiler

[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/electrum-compiler.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/electrum-compiler)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/epsitec-sa/electrum-compiler.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/epsitec-sa/electrum-compiler)
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/olcw73cohae726aw?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/epsitec/electrum-compiler)

This is a run-time compiler for [Electrum](https://github.com/epsitec-sa/electrum)-enabled
React components, based on **Babel**.
It is relying on [babel-standalone](https://github.com/Daniel15/babel-standalone)
for the real work and provides additional logic to build live React components
directly from source code.

# The Compiler class

## Transform JavaScript to ES5

To transform JavaScript to ES5, use:

* `transform(input)` &rarr; produces ES5 output based on the JavaScript `source`.

```javascript
let input = 'const greet = x => `Hello ${x}.`;';
let compiler = new Compiler ();
let source = compiler.transform (input);
// ES5 compatible source
```

## Build Electrum-enabled React component

To build an Electrum-enabled React component, use:

* `build(name, input)` &rarr; produces a component description; the name of the
  compoment will be `name` and its source code defined by `input`, which must
  be a source containing a class definition.
* `build(name, input, locals)` &rarr; same as above, but inject the key/value
  pairs found in `locals` into the compilation context.
* `build(name, input, locals, more)` &rarr; same as above, `more` represents
  additional source code which will be provided to `Electrum.wrap()` as the
  `more` argument (it can be used to bind the component with styles).


```javascript
let input = 'class extends React.Component { render() { return <div>Hi.</div>; } }';
let compiler = new Compiler ();
let output = compiler.build ('Foo', input);
// Component in output.component
```

If the source code needs to reference external symbols (for instance other
components), they must be registered before calling `build()`:

```javascript
let input = `
class extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <Button>{text}</Button>;
  }
}`;

let compiler = new Compiler ();

compiler.register (Button);
compiler.register ('text', 'Hello')

let output = compiler.build ('Foo', input);
// Component in output.component
```

The output of `build()` is an object with following properties:

* `name` &rarr; name of the component.
* `code` &rarr; source code used to produce the component.
* `component` &rarr; the component.
* `error` &rarr; the error (if there was an error).

Properties `code` and `component` are only present if the call to `build()`
was successful. Otherwise, the error message is stored in `error`.

Note that the position in the error message will be offset by one line, as
`build()` prepends some code to the given input source.

## Accessing the catalog

Items registered on the compiler with `register()` are stored in a _catalog_.
The catalog can be retrieved through the `catalog` getter:

```javascript
let compiler = new Compiler ();

compiler.register ('x', {a: 1});
compiler.register ('y', {b: 2});

expect (compiler.catalog.x).to.have.property ('a', 1);
expect (compiler.catalog.y).to.have.property ('b', 2);
```

## Evaluating an expression

The compiler also includes an ES6/JSX compatible version of `eval()` which
can be used to evaluate expressions:

```javascript
let compiler = new Compiler ();

expect (compiler.eval ('2 + 3')).to.equal (5);
expect (compiler.eval ('<div></div>')).to.equalJSX (<div />);
```
